Trainient reference document: Training principles

### Training Principle:

When muscle a muscle is trained in a progressively overloading manner through bio mechanical motions. Fibre are challenged and therefore creates an adaption which is causes from the hypertrophy stimuli. This effect is created when an individual trains to failure during an exercise. Which could be done in any rep range 5-30 repetitions according to Brad J Schoenfeld. What matters is the proximity to failure we are approaching, not in which repetition range. There is not a specific rep range that is better or worse. Rather the best rep range might vary by exercise selection, CNS fatigue during an exercise. preference, injuries. and many more. Altough, for the vast majority of the individuals that train shall consider the absolutes as improbable at most scenarios. rep ranges ranging from 5 and below tend to be hard to control. For example if a single arm rear delt fly is being performed with a weight that would approximate to a failure of 3 reps. This is an absolute max weight for a 3 rep set. This set would be extremely hard to stimulate hypertrophy since the form used would not stimulate the muscle through the movement. therefore using a higher rep range but still approach the proximity to failure would be much more beneficial. But lets put it the other way. Imagine an individual do 30 sets of squats with a weight applicable to 30 reps. Most likely secondary factors would involve the individual to quit the set early like, arm, shoulders giving out way before the intended muscle like in this case legs. therefore sticking is 8-12 to more appropriate rep range for most. 

### Volume, Intensity and Frequency

These are the 3 fundamental pillars of hypertrophy. These parameters dictate the training program as a whole. As explained we shall train to failure to generate a stimulus to the muscle. So intensity shall always be maximized. Therefore leaving us with 2 parameters left to play with and thats volume and frequency. If we train frequent our volume can not be high per training session in order to recover from the natural response of the previous session. Once the body has recovered and adapted from the stimulus generated the body is yet again ready to challenge the muscle by adding progressive overload. And vice versa if our volume is high per training session we can not train as frequent. 
Not all sets are created equal. As we know our goal is to challenge the muscle to generate a natural response so that it adapts to that force. Therefore training frequency becomes the number one factor for muscle growth, at an appropriate volume of course. Quality stimulative stes are created when we are as fresh as possible therefore putting all 12 sets of a certain muscle group on 1 day instead of splitting it up across 3 days with 4 sets each is a bad idea. What adaptive response are we acquiring from the 11 set on that one specific day compared to the more frequent split up week as quality sets.
